Intro page overview (#2160)
giantswarm/docs: src/content/overview/introduction.md

---

> title: Introduction to Giant Swarm

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Introduction to Giant Swarm and the Giant Swarm platform
```

> description: Giant Swarm is a platform that helps engineering teams to build Cloud Native Developer Platform and operate them without much hassle.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
description: Giant Swarm is a platform that helps engineering teams to build Cloud Native Developer Platforms and operate them without much hassle.
```

Reviewer 2: also here and below you always say "engineers" or "engineerig teams" and call their customers "developers", might be clearer to change that to "platform engineers"

weight: 10
menu:
  main:
    parent: overview
user_questions:
  - What is a Cloud Native Developer Platform?
  - How does Giant Swarm offer?
owner:
  - https://github.com/orgs/giantswarm/teams/team-horizon
last_review_date: 2024-03-08
---

> Giant Swarm's mission is to empower customers to build their own Cloud Native Developer Platforms. Most of the engineering teams nowadays want o build a [platform](https://tag-app-delivery.cncf.io/whitepapers/platforms/#what-is-a-platform). There are [many reasons](https://tag-app-delivery.cncf.io/whitepapers/platforms/#why-platforms) why you would like to do it indeed, but let's recognize that sailing Cloud Native landscape rife today is overwhelming.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Giant Swarm's mission is to empower customers to build their own Cloud Native Developer Platforms. Most engineering teams today want to build a [platform](https://tag-app-delivery.cncf.io/whitepapers/platforms/#what-is-a-platform) and there are [many reasons](https://tag-app-delivery.cncf.io/whitepapers/platforms/#why-platforms) why a unified platform actually makes sense, but the teams should also be aware that the complexity in today's cloud-native landscape is overwhelming.
```

> Giant Swarm's mission is to empower our customers to build their own cloud-native developer platforms. Most engineering teams today want to build a [platform](https://tag-app-delivery.cncf.io/whitepapers/platforms/#what-is-a-platform) and there are [many reasons](https://tag-app-delivery.cncf.io/whitepapers/platforms/#why-platforms) why a unified platform actually makes sense, but the teams should also be aware that the complexity in today's cloud-native landscape is overwhelming.

Reviewer 4: Giant Swarm's mission is to empower our customers to build their own cloud-native [developer platform](https://tag-app-delivery.cncf.io/whitepapers/platforms/#what-is-a-platform). As engineering teams grow and their environments expand, they often face exponentially growing complexity within the cloud-native ecosystem. This can be overwhelming. We believe that in most cases, having a [unified platform](https://tag-app-delivery.cncf.io/whitepapers/platforms/#why-platforms) plays a crucial role in keeping or gaining control over the entropic nature of such complex environments, while also significantly enhancing the users experience in using them.

Got a bit carried away and ended up rewriting the whole paragraph. Maybe you want to use something :)

> Giant Swarm's mission is to empower our customers to build their own cloud-native [developer platform](https://tag-app-delivery.cncf.io/whitepapers/platforms/#what-is-a-platform). As engineering teams grow and their environments expand, they often face exponentially growing complexity within the cloud-native ecosystem. This can be overwhelming. We believe that in most cases, having a [unified platform](https://tag-app-delivery.cncf.io/whitepapers/platforms/#why-platforms) plays a crucial role in keeping or gaining control over the entropic nature of such complex environments, while also significantly enhancing the users experience in using them.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Giant Swarm's mission is to empower our customers to build their own cloud-native [developer platform](https://tag-app-delivery.cncf.io/whitepapers/platforms/#what-is-a-platform). When development organizations and departments grow and their environments expand, they often face exponentially growing complexity to manage the lifecycle and operations of their application and services. This easily gets overwhelming. We believe that having a flexible [unified platform](https://tag-app-delivery.cncf.io/whitepapers/platforms/#why-platforms) plays a crucial role in growing your development organization efficiently. The platform not only helps to take the toil out of the development teams to have less cognitive load, but also enables capabilities to manage security and governance more centrally.
```

Reviewer: Very nice. Just a few thoughts which I wasn't able to put into good sentences:

- Should we mention shortly _what_ is overwhelming? Something like "creating and maintaining it all yourself while it's not your core business".
- Link to what ["toil"](https://sre.google/sre-book/eliminating-toil/) is? I don't think the term is widely known in non English natives at all, unless they have read the Google SRE book.

And suggestions on top of Timo's:

- `flexible, unified cloud-native developer platform` to bring the CNCF term in (and a comma)
- `s/to manage/for managing/`

> At the end of the day developers want to deploy an app to their systems without having to think too much about security or compliance but having good observability and delivery options. Our goal is to help the engineers that build and maintain the platform to achieve the developers expectations without sacrifice the security posture of their companies.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Ultimately, developers want to deploy an app into production without having to worry too much about security or compliance, but still have good monitoring and deployment options. Our goal is to help the engineers who build and maintain the platform meet developers' expectations without compromising their organizations' security posture.
```

> Ultimately, developers want to deploy an app into production without having to worry too much about security or compliance, but still have good monitoring and deployment options. Our goal is to help the engineers who build and maintain the platform meet developers' expectations without compromising their organizations' security posture.

Reviewer: - At best reword without plural apostrophe (`developers'`, `organizations'`)
- We're missing a statement or diagram to show _platform team_ vs. _developers_ (and a typical ratio i.e. much fewer platform engineers than devs)

> Giant Swarm approaches the challenge by offering a flexible baseline platform. The platform enables tech departments to ensure governance and control over development processes, while also allowing developers to navigate their development cycle smoothly. The succeeding documentation will introduce how we make it possible.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Giant Swarm addresses this challenge by providing a flexible base platform. The platform enables technology departments to ensure governance and control over development processes and operations, while allowing developers to smoothly manage their development cycle. Check out the documentation below to learn how we make this possible.
```

> Giant Swarm addresses this challenge by providing a flexible base platform. The platform enables technology departments to ensure governance and control over development processes and operations, while allowing developers to smoothly manage their development cycle. Check out the documentation below to learn how we make this possible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Giant Swarm addresses this challenge by providing a flexible base platform. The platform enables technology departments to ensure governance and control over development processes and operations, while providing developers a smooth development cycle. Check out the documentation to learn how we make this possible.
```

(I don't think there's a "below" i.e. literally _below_ this article, right?)

> ## Our platform your platform

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Our platform, your platform
```

> You may wonder, how do we achieve flexibility and standardization concurrently? We don't offer a one-size-fits-all platform that covers 80% of your use cases, in the most optimistic scenario, leaving apart the rest of you company. Instead, we trust in the Cloud Native ecosystem to provide set of capabilities that help platform teams to build a developer platform that aligns with company’s constraints, processes and rarities. We believe there isn't a universal [Internal Developer Platform](https://internaldeveloperplatform.org/) that can cater to all needs, specially in the enterprise world, and for that reason we make our solution composable and cuztomizable to your own desire.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You may be wondering: How does Giant Swarm achieve flexibility and standardization at the same time? Giant Swarm does not offer a one-size-fits-all platform that, in the most optimistic scenario, covers 80% of use cases and ignores the rest of your business. Instead, we trust the Cloud Native ecosystem to provide a set of features that help platform teams build a developer platform that fits the company's constraints, processes, and unique features. We believe that there is no universal [internal developer platform](https://internaldeveloperplatform.org/) that can cover all needs, especially in the enterprise world, and for this reason we make our solution composable and customizable.
```

> You may be wondering: How does Giant Swarm achieve flexibility and standardization at the same time? Giant Swarm does not offer a one-size-fits-all platform that, in the most optimistic scenario, covers 80% of use cases and ignores the rest of your business. Instead, we trust the cloud-native ecosystem to provide a set of features that help platform teams build a developer platform that fits the company's constraints, processes, and unique features. We believe that there is no universal [internal developer platform](https://internaldeveloperplatform.org/) that can cover all needs, especially in the enterprise world, and for this reason we make our solution composable and customizable.

Reviewer: We already linked to CNCF's whitepaper above. Should we really add another link here?

> Our approach will give you the ability to define team-specific policies, flexible applications delivery processes or various traffic routing setups. We will assist you in creating templates that cater to your team's needs, while maintaining excellent visibility and control over their activities.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Our approach gives you the ability to define team-specific policies, flexible application delivery processes, or different traffic routing setups. We help you create templates tailored to your team's needs while ensuring excellent visibility and control over their activities.
```

> Our approach gives you the ability to define team-specific policies, flexible application delivery processes, or different traffic routing setups. We help you create templates tailored to your team's needs while ensuring excellent visibility and control over their activities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our approach gives you the ability to define team-specific policies, flexible application delivery processes, or different traffic routing setups – just to name a few of the options. We help you create templates tailored to your team's needs while ensuring excellent visibility and control over their activities.
```

## Working with our customers

> We offer a product that lets you start quickly with a platform. But our team works with your engineers every day to build something together from this starting point. There is a common baseline that your security and governance team can trust upon. And specific requirements will be discussed and configured in collaboration. Good communication and support is key and this is exactly what we are good at.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We offer a product that lets you start quickly with a production-ready platform. But our team works with your engineers every day to build something together from this starting point. There is a common baseline that your security and governance team can trust upon. And specific requirements will be discussed and configured in collaboration. Good communication and support is key and this is exactly what we are good at.
```

> We do not offer a turnkey product operational from day one. Our team work in daily basis with your engineers to build something together starting from a good baseline. There is a common ground where your security and governance team agreed upon. Since the platform is built in collaboration some part will be operated by us and some other managed by your teams. There will be some communication and stretch support needed, which is exactly what we do.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We offer a product that lets you start quickly with a platform. But our team works with your engineers every day to build something together from this starting point. There is a common baseline that your security and governance team can trust upon. And specific requirements will be discussed and configured in collaboration. Good communication and support is key and this is exactly what we are good at.
```

> We offer a product that lets you start quickly with a production-ready platform. But our team works with your engineers every day to build something together from this starting point. There is a common baseline that your security and governance team can trust upon. And specific requirements will be discussed and configured in collaboration. Good communication and support is key and this is exactly what we are good at.

Reviewer: Maybe add something like us having long-standing customers who trust us, linking to use cases on the `giantswarm.io` website?

> At Giant Swarm, we take ownership of the platform's basic components and some managed apps that you can install on the platform. We operate these 24/7, providing you with upgrades and advice. Sometimes, there might be gray areas where your application doesn't function as expected due to shared platform components. Rest assured, we will troubleshoot together until they are resolved.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
At Giant Swarm, we take full responsibility for the components of the platform. We operate this 24/7 and offer you upgrades and support. Even in cases where your application does not work as expected rest assured, we will troubleshoot the errors together until they are resolved.
```

> At Giant Swarm, we take full responsibility for the components of the platform. We operate this 24/7 and offer you upgrades and support. Even in cases where your application does not work as expected rest assured, we will troubleshoot the errors together until they are resolved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At Giant Swarm, we take full responsibility for the components of the platform. We operate this 24/7 and offer you upgrades and support. Even in cases where your application does not work as expected, rest assured, we will troubleshoot the errors together until they are resolved.
```
